          
                                  
 Accessories
 Lower body garments
 Upper body garments
%S%%S~%%%S~
%d
*.bmp;*.jpg;*.jpeg;*.png;*.tga;*.tif;*.tiff;*.iff;*.pix;*.raw
1) Adjust the framing box by moving the white handles to a better position around the face.
1) Move
1) Select "Load Face" to load a face image file.
2) Adjust the look of the image by using "Tint", "Saturation", and "Stylize" sliders.
2) Move your face to the center of the white box by clicking on and dragging the image to position the face inside the box.
2) Rotate
3) Adjust the mask on the face using the mask sliders and the wire frame tool so the image sits on the skin to your liking.
3) If the face is not straight, use "Rotate" to get the eyes level.
3) Scale
3D Preview
4) Use the "Size" slider to fit the face into the box approximately as shown.
5) When you are satisfied with the result, select "Next".
< Back
Aaron Keppel
Aaron Robinson
Add Logo
Add a logo to your sims clothes
Add another Logo to the collection
Add another material texture to the collection
Adult
Alex Fennell
All
All Files (*.*)
All Image Files (%s)
All~*.*~
Andrew Howes
Any unsaved changes will be lost, are you sure you want to quit?
Apply Logo
Apply the selected logo to your sim
Back
Blend
Body
Body Saved
Body Skins
Bottom
Brian Lomas
Brooke Harris
Bryan Moodie
Cancel
Change which heads and bodies are displayed by clicking the Adult, Child, Gender, and Skin Tone icons on the left.
Change your Sims clothes
Charis Kumpula
Chih-Kuo Chuang
Child
Choose from the selection of logos on the right to add to your Sim's clothing. If you would like to add a second logo, click on the 'Apply Logo' button and select another logo for your Sim.
Chris Blackbourn
Click 'Done' when you are finished.
Click 'Next' to continue.
Click the 'Load Face' button to load an image from disk (.png, .jpg, .tga, .bmp, and .tif's are the acceptable file types).
Close
Color Paintbrush Tool
Color Picker Tool
Continue to next screen
Credits
Damien Connolly
Dark Skin
David Miller
David Revill
David Rhoades
Done
Drag the logo in the left window or use the X-Y sliders to position the logo on the Sim.
Engineering Support
Eraser Tool
Exit
Face Photo Wizard
Face Photo Wizard Step 1
Face Photo Wizard Step 2
Face Photo Wizard: Step 1
Face Photo Wizard: Step 2
Feather
Female
File already exists
File exists
File:  xskin-b002mafit_01-PELVIS-BODY
File:  xskin-c002ma_baldfat-HEAD-HEAD
FileName
Finish dressing this sim
Finish the Face Photo Wizard
Flip Logo
Flip the selected logo on your sim
Fred Dieckmann
Front
Glenn Collins
Go Back
Head
Head Saved
Head Skins
Help
Hugh Malan
If you need to load a new image you can do so here by clicking on 'Load Face' (.png, .jpg, .tga, .bmp, and .tif's are the acceptable file types).
Instructions:
Jeannie Revill
John Zurek
Keep logos and return to the wardrobe
Kent Barber
Left
Left click and drag to rotate.
Light Skin
Load Face
Load Logo
Load Texture
Load your own photo from disk
Loading
Logo Selector
Logos
Male
Mark Thomas
Mary Alice Krayecki
Mask
Mask Height
Mask Left/Right
Mask Model
Mask Up/Down
Mask Width
Material
Materials
Matthew Simmonds
Medium Skin
Michael Lynch
Middle or L and R click and drag to Pan.
Name
Next >
No
No files saved
Once you have saved the models press the 'Done' button.  (Note: You do not have to save both the head and the body. You can save just one of them if you want to.)
Paint
Paint Screen
Paint your Sim
Pan Tool
Parsing CMX files...
Patrick Barrett
Perspective
Peter Dansted
Please load a picture of a face to continue.
Position the face so it fills the box in the left window by dragging it with your mouse and using the 'Size' and 'Rotate' sliders. Try to leave the ears and hair in the picture inside the box.
Preparing Body Work Area...
Preparing Head Work Area...
Preparing to remove body images
Preparing to remove body models
Preparing to remove body shaders
Preparing to remove head images
Preparing to remove head models
Preparing to remove head shaders
Press R to reset the view.
Pressing P will bring up the Rendering Preferences. From here you can change from OpenGL to Software. More recent graphics cards can take advantage of the compatibility settings. By turning on the Share GL Resources it will increase the painting speed. Turning on the Cache Sims Models will speed up the frame rate of interacting with the models. These features will require a restart of The Sims Creator.
Pressing the 'Reset' button will reset all the sliders and the control box.
Pressing the 'Reset' button will set the sliders back to their starting positions and will center the photo again.
Preview your Sim from different angles in the 3D view.
Producer
Projection Image
Put your face on your Sim
Quit the Face Photo Wizard
Redo
Remember that you can click 'Back' at any time to read instructions from a previous screen.
Remove logos ans return to the wardrobe
Remove the previous garment
Removing body images
Removing body models
Removing body shaders
Removing head images
Removing head models
Removing head shaders
Reset
Reset controls
Restart dressing this sim
Return to main screen
Return to previous screen
Return to the main screen without changing clothes
Right
Right click and drag to zoom.
Rotate
Saturation
Save
Save Sim
Save this body to disk
Save this head to disk
Scale
Scale:
Scott Boness
Sean Baity
Sebastian Hyde
Shan Simpson
Sims Wardrobe
Sinjin Bain
Size
Special Thanks
Stephen Long
Strength
Stylize
Testers
Texture Paintbrush Tool
The Sim Wardrobe allows you to change your Sim's clothes. You can choose which garment you would like your Sim to wear from the left, and then you can choose a material for that garment from the right. You can layer the garments on your Sim by clicking on more garments. You may also choose any accessories you wish to place on your Sim from the left but you are only allowed to change the material on certain accessories.
The Sims(TM) Creator
The Sims(TM) Website
The right side of the panel has the color swatch and a color picker. The color swatch shows the current foreground color, background color, and a few preset colors. The foreground color will be the color used with the Color Paintbrush tool and the background color will be the color used with the Eraser tool. You can choose a preset color by left clicking, or store the foreground color by right clicking. Clicking within the color picker changes the current foreground color.
The tool panel at the bottom of the screen allows you to paint, move and save your Sim. On the left are the tool buttons. You can Undo or Redo changes with the arrow buttons. The Color Picker tool can be used to choose a color from the 2D or 3D views. The Pan, Zoom, and Rotate tools allow you to move your Sim. If you click on the Rotate tool you may pan, zoom, and rotate the same way you were able to on the start screen of The Sims Creator. To paint your Sim choose the Color Paintbrush or the Texture Paintbrush.
There is already a body with that filename, do you wish to save over it?
There is already a head with that filename, do you wish to save over it?
Tim LeTourneau
Tint
Tip: Use the wire frame tool and the mask sliders to adjust and align the image to your liking, try to align the nose and eyes of the image with the wire frame.
To add an image to the body of the Sim click on the 'Add Logo' button, you will be taken to the Logo Selector screen.
To import an image to use as a logo press the 'Load Logo' button and choose the file you want to use (.png, .jpg, .tga, .bmp, and .tif's are the acceptable file types).
To put your face on the Sim model, follow these instructions.
Toggle Wire Frame
Top
Trude Mattingly
Type a unique name in the 'Name' box. The name of the file that will be saved on the disk will be displayed underneath the 'Name' box by the word 'FileName'. Once you are happy with the name, press 'Save'. You must enter a name for the head and for the body if you would like to save both. It is easiest if you select the same name for each so that you remember they go together!
Undo
Undress
Untitled window
Use The Sims(TM) Creator to customize the look of all your Sims. Just click on a head and a body to choose a Sim to customize.
Use the 'Undo' button to remove the last piece of clothing you added. The 'Undress' button removes most of the Sim's clothing. If you do not click the 'Undress' button you will layer the new garments over the Sim's original garments.
Use the controls to fine-tune your Sims new face.
Use the scale slider to make the logo larger or smaller.
Use the slider to change your paintbrush's scale, feather, and strength.
Use this screen to paint your Sim using the 2D and 3D views.
View All Of The Sim
View From The Back
View From The Bottom
View From The Front
View From The Left
View From The Right
View From The Top
View The Body
View The Head
When you are finished click 'Done' to return to the Sims Wardrobe screen and keep your changes, or click 'Cancel' to return without keeping your changes.
When you are finished click 'Done' to return to the start screen, or click 'Cancel' to return without keeping your changes.
When you are finished painting your Sim click 'Done' to return to the main screen. Click 'Cancel' to undo all your painting and return to the main screen.
When you select the Texture Paintbrush, the right side of the panel shows a texture selector. Choose the texture you want to paint with from there. If you would like to import your own textures, you must go to the Sim Wardrobe screen.
Wire Frame
Working
X:
Y:
Yes
You can access the Face Photo Wizard, Sims Wardrobe, and Paint from here. When you are done don't forget to save your work.
You can change your 3D view direction using the 'Front', 'Back', 'Left', 'Right', 'Top' and 'Bottom' buttons on the top of the 3D panel. You can get a closer view by clicking the 'Head' or 'Body' buttons. Click on the wireframe button to show or hide the wireframe.
You can load more material from disk by clicking on the 'Load Texture' button (.png, .jpg, .tga, .bmp, and .tif's are the acceptable file types).
You can move the face around on your Sim by clicking inside the white box on the left or clicking and dragging the white squares that are attached to the box.
You can view your Sim from different angles, by clicking and dragging in the 3D view.
You have not clicked a save button, are you sure you wish to return?
Zoom Tool
and all of the employees of Maxis who
continue to make The Sims(TM) an incredible game.
