FaceLift 1.1 ReadMe
Maxis
The Sims
2/15/2000

Update: This update contains a Voodoo 3 fix for Viewing, Saving, and Exporting faces. 



Overview

Create an entire neighborhood of custom-made Sims with FaceLift. 
FaceLift allows you to create any face under the sun and then put 
those faces into The Sims. The Sims? What is The Sims you ask?

From Will Wright, the creator of SimCity, comes a new kind of strategy 
game that really hits close to home! Create an entire neighborhood of 
Sims and run or ruin their lives. Help them pursue careers, make friends 
and find romance-or see what happens when you make a complete mess of things! 
Open-ended gameplay gives you the freedom to set your own goals and chart your 
Sims' destiny. It is your neighborhood and they are your Sims. Whether they 
prosper or perish is completely up to you. There is an entire neighborhood of 
Sims at your command to live out your wildest dreams or experience your worst 
nightmares. Help them live life in the fast lane or pursue a life of crime. 
Build them a sprawling mansion or a dilapidated shack. Let them party like 
swinging singles or fall in love, get married, and raise a family. It is up 
to you to decide, their fate is in your hands.

Visit us at http://www.thesims.com to check out the cool faces that other players 
have created and download them into your game. Check out our website for other cool 
tools that allow you to customize the world of The Sims.
	
Look for The Sims in a store near you. 


DirectX and Technical Help
	
* DirectX 6 or higher should be installed in order to run FaceLift. If you don't have 
DirectX 6 or higher you can download it from:

http://www.microsoft.com/directx/homeuser/downloads/default.asp

	
* If you have installed any recent games you most likely have DirectX 6. Additional 
help with DirectX 6 may be found here: 

http://www.ea.com/tech_support/index.html

	

The Basics

* After starting FaceLift, you will want to find your "starting face" which 
you will then evolve into the face you want to put into the game.

* If you don't like any of the starting faces, click on the RESET FACES button 
and nine new faces will appear. Keep doing this until you find your "starting face".
	    
* Note the light blue highlight around the Center Face in the face window. The 
Center Face can be thought of as the Current Face. When you click on Fine Tune, 
Export, and Save, the Center Face or Current Face is the one that you will be fine 
tuning, exporting, or saving.

* Once you have your "starting face" you will want to use
a combination of the DEFORM, BLEND, and DEFORM and BLEND
buttons, as well as the HEAD, HAIR, and HEAD and HAIR
buttons. Click on these buttons then click on a face
within the face window and watch the change before your
eyes.

* If you want a new hair style but want the head to remain
the same, click the DEFORM and BLEND and the HAIR buttons
and then click on the face.

* If you want a new head but want the hair to remain the
same, click the DEFORM and HEAD buttons and then click on
the face.

* If you want a different skin tone, click the BLEND and
HEAD buttons and then click on the face. If you want
lighter or darker colored hair, click the BLEND and HAIR
buttons and then click on the face.

* Use the MUTATION RATE slider on the left-side of the
screen to make drastic or subtle changes. Slide the bar
all the way to the top for drastic changes, or all the way
to the bottom for subtle changes.

* To view a face in a 3D close-up view, right-click on
that face. Left-click and drag the mouse on the face to
rotate it. Right-click again on the face to leave the 3D
window and return to the main screen.

* Once you have gotten the face you want, you can go to
the Fine Tune screen to make your finishing touches. Click
on the FINE TUNE button and make those last changes. Once
you are done fine tuning your face, click on the MAIN
SCREEN button.

* Now you have a decision to make, you can either SAVE
your face and come back to it later, or EXPORT your face
into the game. Click on the SAVE or EXPORT button, it's up
to you!


Interface

* Help--->Click on the Help button to bring up the
FaceLift Help.

* Mutation Rate--->Use the MUTATION RATE slider on the
left-side of the screen to make drastic or subtle
changes. Slide the bar all the way to the top for
drastic changes, or all the way to the bottom for
subtle changes.

* Tooltips On/Off--->Click on the TOOLTIPS button to turn
Tooltips On/Off.

* Back--->Click on the BACK button to go back to the
previous set of faces. This button is similar to the
Back button of your web browser.

* Forward--->Click on the FORWARD button to go to the
next set of faces after clicking on the BACK
button. This button is similar to the FORWARD button
of your web browser.

* Reset Faces--->Click on the RESET FACES button to
bring up a new set of nine faces in the face windows.

* Face Window-->Left-click on a FACE WINDOW to select
that face. Right-Click on a FACE WINDOW to view that
face in a 3D close-up view. Once in the 3D close-up
window, left-click and drag the mouse over the face to
view the face from all sides. Right-click again to
return to the main screen.

* Deform--->Click on the DEFORM button if you want to
change the shape of the head or hair.

* Blend--->Click on the BLEND button if you want to
change the color/texture of the head or hair.

* Deform and Blend-->Click on the DEFORM and BLEND
button if you want to change both the shape and
color/texture of the head or hair.

NOTE: The Deform, Blend, and Deform and Blend buttons
are part of a button group. Only one of these buttons
can be selected at a time and are used in conjunction
with the Head, Hair, and Head and Hair buttons.

* Head--->Click on the HEAD button if you want to
change the head shape or color/texture.

* Hair--->Click on the HAIR button if you want to
change the hair style or color/texture.

* Head and Hair--->Click on the HEAD and HAIR button
if you want to change both the hair and the head.

NOTE: The Head, Hair, and Head and Hair buttons are
part of a button group. Only one of these buttons can
be selected at a time and are used in conjunction with
the Deform, Blend, and Deform and Blend buttons.

* Fine Tune--->Click on the FINE TUNE button to take the
currently selected face to the Fine Tune screen. This
screen allows you to fine tune the face until you get
the face you want. The three buttons at the top enable
the three different sets of sliders below. The three
buttons include: Eyes, Nose, and Cheek and Jaw. When
you click on one of these buttons the set of sliders
for the area of the face you selected appear. Move
these sliders left and right to get the desired effect
you want. Notice the face changes as you move the
sliders.

NOTE: If you don't see any changes being made to the
face when moving a slider, rotate the face to a
profile view by clicking and dragging on the face, and
then move the slider.

* Save--->Click on the SAVE button in order to save
the current set of nine faces. Type a name in the
upper right-hand text box and then click on the OK
button.

* Recall--->Click on the RECALL button in order to
load a saved set of faces. Click on the name of the
face set that you want to recall from the listbox and
then click on the OK button.

* Export--->Click on the EXPORT button in order to put
your face into the game. There are several things you
must do before you Export your face. Type in a name
for your face. If you want to upload your face to
www.thesims.com in the future, you must enter your Unique
ID. Now you must choose between Adult/Child,
Light/Medium/Dark skin, and Male/Female. Your face will
appear in the game on the Create A Sim screen according to
the selections you make. So if you select a Dark-skinned
Adult Female, your face will appear in this category
on the Create A Sim screen in The Sims.


FaceLift was developed by:
Roger E Critchlow Jr
&
Steve DiPaola
